ALEC-227: ALEC docs: update installation section (#101)
OpenNMS/alec: docs/modules/admin/pages/distributed_install.adoc

:imagesdir: ../assets/images
= Distributed Installation

> A distributed deployment runs ALEC as a service on top of https://docs.opennms.com/horizon/latest/deployment/sentinel/introduction.html[Sentinel], an OpenNMS component that enables scalability for data processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A distributed installation runs ALEC as a service on top of https://docs.opennms.com/horizon/latest/deployment/sentinel/introduction.html[Sentinel], an OpenNMS component that enables scalability for data processing.
```

.Example distributed installation network architecture graph
image::distributed_deployment.png[Network architecture graph that displays the components of a distributed installation of ALEC, 700]

[[prequisites]]
== Prerequisites

In addition to an existing instance of OpenNMS Horizon 30.0.1 or newer, this guide assumes that you have the following:

* A Kafka broker (or cluster) running Kafka 0.11.x or greater.
* One or more active Minions.
* OpenNMS Sentinel.
** Minions configured to use Kafka for the transport.
** Minions ready to receive SNMP traps and Syslog messages.
* ZooKeeper 3.5.10 or newer.

== Before you begin

> Make sure you complete the xref:install:pre_install.adoc[pre-installation tasks] before proceeding with the basic installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must complete the xref:install:pre_install.adoc[pre-installation tasks] before proceeding with the installation.
```

> When installing the package repository, ensure that you do this on all of the systems that are running Sentinel and OpenNMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that you install the package repository on all systems that are running Sentinel and OpenNMS.
```

== OpenNMS configuration

> Complete the following steps through the OpenNMS Karaf shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the following steps in the OpenNMS Karaf shell.
```

They configure your OpenNMS instance in preparation for a distributed installation of ALEC.

=== Enable and configure the Kafka Producer

.Configure the Kafka Producer to point to your Kafka broker:

```
echo 'bootstrap.servers=127.0.0.1:9092' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.kafka.producer.client.cfg"
```

.Disable incremental alarm suppression:
```
echo 'suppressIncrementalAlarms=false' >> "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.kafka.producer.cfg"
```

> Add `opennms-kafka-producer` to the `featuresBoot` property in the `$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/org.apache.karaf.features.cfg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open `$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/org.apache.karaf.features.cfg` in a text editor and add `opennms-kafka-producer` to the `featuresBoot` property.
```

> === Enable consumption of events from Kafka

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Enable consumption of Kafka events
```

.Enable the Sink API consumer for eventd:

```
echo 'org.opennms.netmgt.eventd.sink.enable=true' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/opennms.properties.d/event-sink.properties"
```

IMPORTANT: We assume that you are already using the Kafka strategy for the Sink API.

> See <<prequisites>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: This procedure assumes that you are already using the Kafka strategy for the Sink API (see <<prequisites>>).
```

== Install ALEC in OpenNMS

.Install the ALEC plugin package on your OpenNMS server:
```
yum -y install opennms-alec-plugin
```

.Configure the feature set to be installed when OpenNMS starts:

```
echo 'alec-opennms-distributed wait-for-kar=opennms-alec-plugin' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/featuresBoot.d/alec.boot"
```

== Install ALEC in Sentinel

.Install the ALEC plugin package on your Sentinel systems:
```
yum -y install sentinel-alec-plugin
```

> .Configure the Kafka Stream (consumer):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Configure Kafka Stream (consumer):
```

```
echo 'bootstrap.servers=127.0.0.1:9092
commit.interval.ms=5000' > "$SENTINEL_HOME/etc/org.opennms.alec.datasource.opennms.kafka.streams.cfg"
```

> Configure the Kafka producer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Configure the Kafka producer:
```

```
echo 'bootstrap.servers=127.0.0.1:9092' > "$SENTINEL_HOME/etc/org.opennms.alec.datasource.opennms.kafka.producer.cfg"
```

> TIP: The consumer reads alarms and inventory, while the producer sends events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: Kafka Stream reads alarms and inventory, while the Kafka producer sends events.
```

.Configure ZooKeeper for distributed coordination:
```
echo 'connectString=127.0.0.1:2181' > "$SENTINEL_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.distributed.coordination.zookeeper.cfg"
```

.Configure the feature set to be installed when Sentinel starts:
```
echo 'sentinel-core
sentinel-coordination-zookeeper
alec-sentinel-distributed wait-for-kar=opennms-alec-plugin' >> "$SENTINEL_HOME/etc/featuresBoot.d/alec.boot"
```

> == Verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Verify your installation
```

Restart OpenNMS and Sentinel.

Ensure that the required Kafka topics are created.
See xref:datasources:kafka.adoc#_topics[topics] for details.

Run the `health:check` command in both OpenNMS and Sentinel.

From a Sentinel Karaf shell, enumerate the available graphs using the following command:

[source, karaf]
----
opennms-alec:list-graphs
----

At this point we expect the command to output a single graph called "dbscan":

[source, karaf]
----
admin@opennms> opennms-alec:list-graphs
dbscan: 0 situations on 524 vertices and 4 edges.

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to verify your distributed ALEC installation:

. Restart your OpenNMS instance and any Sentinel instances.
. Make sure that all required Kafka topics have been created (see xref:datasources:kafka.adoc#_topics[Kafka topics]).
. Run the `health:check` command in an OpenNMS Karaf shell to check the status of your OpenNMS instance.
. Run the `health:check` command in a Sentinel Karaf shell to check the status of the Sentinel instance.
** Repeat this step for each Sentinel instance in your environment.
. Run the `opennms-alec:list-graphs` in a Sentinel Karaf shell to enumerate all available graphs.

At this point, the health check commands should return with no issues, and one graph named "dbscan" should have been enumerated:

[source, karaf]
----
admin@opennms> opennms-alec:list-graphs
dbscan: 0 situations on 524 vertices and 4 edges.
----
```

> NOTE: There may not be any situations, vertices, or edges on the graph at this point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Your graph may not have any situations, vertices, or edges at this point.
This is normal during initial setup.
```

:imagesdir: ../assets/images
= Distributed Installation

A distributed installation runs ALEC as a service on top of https://docs.opennms.com/horizon/latest/deployment/sentinel/introduction.html[Sentinel], an OpenNMS component that enables scalability for data processing.

.Example distributed installation network architecture
image::distributed_deployment.png[Network architecture graphic that displays the components of a distributed installation of ALEC, 700]

[[prequisites]]
== Prerequisites

In addition to an existing instance of OpenNMS Horizon 30.0.1 or newer, these instructions assume that you have the following:

* A Kafka broker (or cluster) running Kafka 0.11.x or greater.
* One or more active Minions.
* OpenNMS Sentinel.
** Minions configured to use Kafka for the transport.
** Minions ready to receive SNMP traps and Syslog messages.
* ZooKeeper 3.5.10 or newer.

== Before you begin

You must complete the xref:install:pre_install.adoc[pre-installation tasks] before proceeding with the installation.

> Make sure that you install the package repository on all systems that are running Sentinel and OpenNMS.

Reviewer: This might not belong in the "Before you begin" section... Perhaps it should be moved to the section on installing the packages?

== OpenNMS configuration

Complete the following steps in the OpenNMS Karaf shell.
They configure your OpenNMS instance in preparation for a distributed installation of ALEC.

> .Configure the Kafka Producer to point to your Kafka broker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Configure Kafka Producer to point to your Kafka broker:
```

= Distributed Installation

> :imagesdir: ../assets/images

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:imagesdir: ../assets/images
= Distributed Installation
```

A distributed installation runs ALEC as a service on top of https://docs.opennms.com/horizon/latest/deployment/sentinel/introduction.html[OpenNMSSentinel].

> OpenNMS Sentinel provides scalability for data processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A distributed deployment runs ALEC as a service on top of https://docs.opennms.com/horizon/latest/deployment/sentinel/introduction.html[Sentinel], an OpenNMS component that enables scalability for data processing.
```

> image::distributed_deployment.png[Distributed,700]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example distributed installation network architecture graph
image::distributed_deployment.png[Network architecture graph that displays the components of a distributed installation of ALEC, 700]
```

[[prequisites]]
== Prequisites

> In addition to an existing instance of OpenNMS Horizon 30.0.1 or greater, this guide assumes you have the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to an existing instance of OpenNMS Horizon 30.0.1 or newer, this guide assumes that you have the following:
```

> 1. A Kafka broker (or cluster) running Kafka 0.11.x or greater.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Kafka broker (or cluster) running Kafka 0.11.x or greater.
```

2. One or more Minions already active in the system.
3. Sentinel
** Minions configured to use Kafka for the transport.
** Minions ready to receive SNMP traps and Syslog messages.

> 4. ZooKeeper 3.5.10+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* One or more active Minions.
* OpenNMS Sentinel.
** Minions configured to use Kafka for the transport.
** Minions ready to receive SNMP traps and Syslog messages.
* ZooKeeper 3.5.10 or newer.
```

== Before you begin

Make sure you complete the xref:install:pre_install.adoc[pre-installation tasks] before proceeding with the basic installation.

When installing the package repository, ensure that you do this on all of the systems that are running Sentinel and OpenNMS.

> == OpenNMS configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== OpenNMS configuration

Complete the following steps through the OpenNMS Karaf shell.
They configure your OpenNMS instance in preparation for a distributed installation of ALEC.
```

> === Enable and configure the Kafka Producer (for topology and alarms)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Enable and configure the Kafka Producer
```

.Configure the Kafka Producer to point to your Kafka broker:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Configure the Kafka Producer to point to your Kafka broker:
```

```
echo 'bootstrap.servers=127.0.0.1:9092' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.kafka.producer.client.cfg"

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
----
echo 'bootstrap.servers=127.0.0.1:9092' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.kafka.producer.client.cfg"
----
```

.Disable incremental alarm suppression:
```
echo 'suppressIncrementalAlarms=false' >> "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.kafka.producer.cfg"

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
----
echo 'suppressIncrementalAlarms=false' >> "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.kafka.producer.cfg"
----
```

=== Enable consumption of events from Kafka

.Enable the Sink API consumer for eventd:

```
echo 'org.opennms.netmgt.eventd.sink.enable=true' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/opennms.properties.d/event-sink.properties"

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
----
echo 'org.opennms.netmgt.eventd.sink.enable=true' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/opennms.properties.d/event-sink.properties"
----
```

IMPORTANT: We assume that you are already using the Kafka strategy for the Sink API.
See <<prequisites>>.

== Install ALEC in OpenNMS

> .On the OpenNMS server, install the package:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Install the ALEC plugin package on your OpenNMS server:
```

> ```
> yum -y install opennms-alec-plugin
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
yum -y install opennms-alec-plugin
```

> .Configure the feature set to be installed when OpenNMS starts:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Configure the feature set to be installed when OpenNMS starts:
```

> ```
> echo 'alec-opennms-distributed wait-for-kar=opennms-alec-plugin' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/featuresBoot.d/alec.boot"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
----
echo 'alec-opennms-distributed wait-for-kar=opennms-alec-plugin' > "$OPENNMS_HOME/etc/featuresBoot.d/alec.boot"
----
```

== Install ALEC in Sentinel

> .On the Sentinel systems, install the package:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Install the ALEC plugin package on your Sentinel systems:
```

> ```
> yum -y install sentinel-alec-plugin
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
yum -y install sentinel-alec-plugin
```

> .Configure the Kafka Stream (consumer):
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Configure the Kafka Stream (consumer):
```

```
echo 'bootstrap.servers=127.0.0.1:9092

> commit.interval.ms=5000' > "$SENTINEL_HOME/etc/org.opennms.alec.datasource.opennms.kafka.streams.cfg"

Reviewer: This can be made into a source block using the syntax from my previous suggestions. I'd make the change, but I can't suggest edits for the final line of the snippet.

echo 'bootstrap.servers=127.0.0.1:9092' > "$SENTINEL_HOME/etc/org.opennms.alec.datasource.opennms.kafka.producer.cfg"

> ```

Reviewer: Same as above, but with the first line this time.

TIP: The consumer reads alarms and inventory, while the producer sends events.

.Configure ZooKeeper for distributed coordination:

> ```
> echo 'connectString=127.0.0.1:2181' > "$SENTINEL_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.distributed.coordination.zookeeper.cfg"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
----
echo 'connectString=127.0.0.1:2181' > "$SENTINEL_HOME/etc/org.opennms.features.distributed.coordination.zookeeper.cfg"
----
```

.Configure the feature set to be installed when Sentinel starts:
```
echo 'sentinel-core

> sentinel-coordination-zookeeper

Reviewer: Same as the previous code block comments.

> Ensure that the required Kafka topics are created.
> See xref:datasources:kafka.adoc#_topics[topics] for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the required Kafka topics are created (see xref:datasources:kafka.adoc#_topics[topics]).
```

Run the `health:check` command in both OpenNMS and Sentinel.

> From a Sentinel Karaf shell, enumerate the available graphs using the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a Sentinel Karaf shell, enumerate the available graphs using the following command:
```

> ```
> opennms-alec:list-graphs
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
opennms-alec:list-graphs
```

> At this point we expect the command output a single graph called "dbscan":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point we expect the command to output a single graph called "dbscan":
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source, karaf]
----
```

admin@opennms> opennms-alec:list-graphs
dbscan: 0 situations on 524 vertices and 4 edges.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

> It's okay if there are no situations, vertices, or edges on the graph at this point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: There may not be any situations, vertices, or edges on the graph at this point.
```
